We have learned a lot of things
from Lean Startup and Customer
Development and what we will do now
is to review a series of reflections,
the main conclusions or reflections
that are things you should
not forget.
The first is that you shouldn'
t plan.
What we have seen and said many
times is that business plans are
useless, not only are they
useless, but they are harmful
and we will explain
why again.
What happens when you innovate,
when you launch a new project,
product, service, company,
whatever, that has a certain
degree of risk, is that
usually what you do is to plan.
You can call this a business plan
or not, but what you are doing
is to think, well, this is what
will happen, you put it in a document
and project it to, for example,
a year, three years, whatever
it is.
Why is this an error?
Because what you are doing is
giving of course what will happen.
You are giving of course, to begin
with, for example, that customers
will buy you, that they see some value
in your product, but you are giving
of course thousands of more things
about which you will be wrong.
You are giving of course that you know
what kind of customers you will have,
the right price, the value they see,
for example, that they like more
of one functionality than others,
that you have to build the product
in this way.
You are giving everything, of course,
and I tell you, and if you have
experience, that you feel
identified with what I say, it is
that the reality that it tells us is
that when you innovate, those
assumptions you are doing, those
things you have thought, are wrong,
because I don't know, in 90 percent
of cases.
Almost always reality surprises us.
So what we can't do is plan,
it's not to tell you that it'
s not good, what I tell you
is that it's absolutely harmful
because it leads us to execute
on a approach that has
very many risks.
What happens is that, as we said,
in that business plan you have incorporated
a lot of factors that are assumptions,
which are acts of faith
that you are doing.
What we need to do is
identify them all.
We're going to change the way
we think, rather than planning,
what we do is think, well, this
is what we want to do, this
is our target business model, but
we're going to identify what are
the hypotheses that will determine
the success or failure of
this business model.
What will determine whether we
are going well or not?
This is a true science, we
must know how to identify
absolutely all the hypotheses.
All those assumptions you are doing,
customers will pay for this, the channel
will understand it, it will cost
us so much to capture a customer,
etc.
Well, instead of starting to run
from that you have thought, we identify
the hypotheses and the first thing
we will do is to permanently do experiments
as clean as possible, as soon
as possible, investing the least
money possible, but it is that
your only goal is not to execute
that business plan, it is to validate
those hypotheses and what we will
do is to go learning, learning,
learning always with this
mental approach to learning,
to validate whether those
hypotheses are correct
or not.
What you will happen is that in many
cases they are not, you
have been wrong, then what
we do is iterate, pivot, as we
want to call it, we are
evolving that business model
and we are doing it on the go,
as soon as possible.
So we will be decreasing
the level of risk very much,
we will be much closer each day,
if you focus on it so, which is
what we learn in Powerland
Formula, you will be every
day closer to it to be
truly successful.
And here we introduced the concept
of the minimum viable product, which
is the approach with which we build
the product with the aim of going
learning permanently, that is,
we do not give for granted that
the finished product has to be
this, we invest a lot of time, a lot
of money, we go to the market with
that product, no, we are building
it progressively, but always
with the aim of going learning,
going validating the hypotheses.
Another of the things we learned
is that we have to incorporate a series
of metrics that are not the usual,
that is, we have to go measuring
whether we are on the way or
not, we have to go learning,
using metrics that are not sales,
that is not the total volume of
users, etc., are metrics that
are representative of that every
day you are building something
that provides more value to the
customer and we differentiated
them from vanity metrics.
You can invest in marketing and capture,
I don't know, thousands of users.
Well, that's fine, but it's a consequence
that your product is better than yesterday
or it's a consequence that you'
ve invested, I don't know, x
money in marketing.
What we need to have are representative
metrics that our product
or service is better every
day, for example, conversion
rates.
If you, in addition to investing
in marketing, are attracting
traffic, etc., what you are
every day convinces more people,
that is representative
of that you are doing
it better.
These are metrics that are
more customer-centric.
And finally, what we learned and
this is very important is what
the phases of product development are.
That is, all this we are seeing,
all this cycle of identifying
hypotheses, doing experiments,
building a minimum viable product,
going learning, going learning if
we are going well or we are going
wrong and going on or going pivoting,
etc., going building our business
model, we have to do it in a
series, in an order, in a few
stages that are very clear.
The first thing we need to do is to
validate or search for the problem
solution fit.
That is, we have to validate that
this problem really matters something
to customers.
By the way, in very many cases
the projects die here and that
in addition our solution understands
and likes.
And this we have to do, because I don'
t know, the first week, for example,
very quickly, with very
lean experiments.
You really have to do it that way.
If you do not do it and you
build the product, if you invest
time and money, without doing
this is a stupid thing, because
in a very high percentage of
cases you will realize that
this problem did not
exist in the mind of the
customer, that your solution
is not understood, that your
solution is not potent, etc.
The higher the degree of innovation,
the more you have to pay attention
to this, the more you have to do
prior experiments.
The next thing we will look for is
the product market fit.
It's that moment when you really
value what you have has
fit perfectly in a customer
segment.
We have to create a minimum
of a viable product.
If we have, we have
to develop our product.
It is no longer worth small
experiments, because we already
have to validate having validated a
little of the channels, the capture
strategy, that we make money, etc.
This is the product
market fit.
That day of truth that you notice,
sales are shot, everyone calls
you, the media contact you.
Well, I'm exaggerating, but
really what I want you to stay
with is that if you have doubts,
you haven't reached it.
Well, the big mistake, the big mistake
is that almost everyone does what
is validating of course that
it has product market fit and
what it does is go directly to
the later phases.
What you do is push that product.
And at the end of the day, what you
do is have a mediocre company.
Why is?
Because the best marketing strategy
is not to push your product,
the best marketing strategy is
that you have done the tasks before,
that you have evolved,
that you have searched permanently
until you have reached
product market fit.
And I tell you that that day you will
sell a lot, you will earn a lot
of money, you will grow a lot.
The big mistake is that.
The big mistake is to start pushing
a product that has not yet reached
product market fit.
There are two main steps
before product market
fit where your focus has
to be to look for permanently
and after product
market fit.
What happens when we reach product
market fit?
Well, in this case what we have
to work on is on our
growth engine.
We need to optimize the
different channels of capture,
etc.
What you have to do is
prepare the way to then
accelerate, then climb.
You imagine that you have reached product
market fit and you are put, I don'
t know, three million euros on the
table.
For what?
To scale this product.
You probably aren't ready
to do so.
Well, that's why, before you climb,
you have to look for some efficiency,
you have to be clear about what
the path will be.
And when you have worked this, it's not that
you're going to be able, it's that
you have to step the accelerator.
At that point what you have to
do is scale and you have to do
it as soon as possible and
as aggressively as possible.